Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. programming language is a vocabulary and set of grammatical rules for instructing a computer or computing device to perform specific tasks.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. The JDK allows developers to create Java programs that can be executed and run by the JVM and JRE.
It is composed of The Runtime Interpreter, The Compiler, The Applet Viewer, The Debugger, The Class File Disassembler,
The Header and Stub File Generator, The Documentation Generator, Applet Demos, API Source Code

What is IDE?
A. Integrated Developing Environment. Tools provided by an IDE include a text editor, a project editor, a tool bar, and an output viewer. IDE's can
perform a variety of functions. Notable ones include write code, compile code, debug code, and monitor resources.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Intellij, Eclipse,

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A.


what is class?
A. A class is a user defined blueprint or prototype from which objects are created.  It represents the set of properties
or methods that are common to all objects of one type

What is object?
A. is an instance of the Class that has state and behavior.

What is the entry point of an application?
A. The main method is the entry point.

Why main is static?
A. It is static because keyword static allows main to be called without creating an object of the class.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. Object Class

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A.  PATH is an environment variable which is used to locate JDK binaries like "java" or "javac" command used to run java
program and compile java source file. CLASSPATH is an environment variable that is used by System or Application
ClassLoader to locate and load compile Java byte codes stored in the .class file.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. Interface is like contract. It cannot be instantiated. It has methods but they are not implemented. Interface gets
implemented in another class.
Abstract class, methods get implemented. Abstract class get extended. Cannot be instantiated.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. You cannot make an object from Interface class. Interface can get implemented into a new class, and you can create an
object from there.
or Abstract class.


what is Access Specifier?
A. Java access modifier specifies which classes can access a given class and its fields, constructors and methods.
Access modifiers can be specified separately for a class, its constructors, fields and methods.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. Object Oriented Programming is a way of writing computer programs using the idea of "objects" to represent data and methods.
 Inheritance: this is when a class has access to the members of its parent without having to be reimplemented.
 polymorphism: this is when a class can change the methods of its parents class to fit its specific needs as well as add its own members
 encapsulation: this is when we restrict the scope of certain members so that they cannot be manipulated outside of the class where they
 are defined, this is achieved with the "private keyword";
 abstraction: abstraction is the process of implementation hiding. we use it when we want certain features to be implemented.


What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A. a package is simply a folder or directory that stores related files and applications for easy access and readability
   The default package is an unnamed package. The unnamed package contains java classes whose source files did not contain a package declaration.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. java does not allow multiple inheritance, only One parent can be inherited from, but we can get around this by implementing
as many interfaces as we want.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A.overloading is when different methods with same name can exist as long as they have different parameters.
this occurs during compile time.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A. Exceptions are any event that disrupt the natural flow of an application, but can be handled without the need to
terminate the application. You can handle an exception with a try catch-block or throws keyword.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A. A static method belongs to the Class not the object. Meaning, if you wanted to call a static method
you would call the class, not the object. A static variable are shared across all objects. So if the static variable is changed,
then all objects with that variable will also change.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A. final keyword indicates that a member cannot be changed once declared. a final variable cannot be changed
and a final method cannot be overridden.

What is final, finally and finalize?
A. finally is a block of code that executes after a try catch block for code cleanup,
   finalize is a method called by java garbage collector that closes any open resources before destroying a object

What is a constructor ?
A. A constructor helps to build and create an object.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A. Yes, with different parameters.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A. the Default constructor which java creates for you.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A. Is used to reference the current object whose method is being called.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A. Reference to the parent class.

What is JVM stand for ?
A. Java Virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
A. yes

What version of java are you using?

What is JAR stand for ?
A. Java Archive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A. jdk stores all the tools and files need by java to run properly, Jvm is the executioner of java bte code

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A. jvm is the virtual machine that executes bytecode it is inside JRE which contains other libraries and components needed to
run java aplications

What is compile time and run time?
A. compile time is the stage when source code converted to byte code, runtime is when the byte code is being executed

What is heap?
A.heap is a section of ram in where all objects are stored

How java manage it's memory?
A.
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A. A.String is immutable stringBuffer and stringBuilder are not, stringBuffer is thread safe, StringBuilder is not

What is Singleton class?
A. a singleton class is a class that allows only one instance object to be created

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A. Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream. Deserialization is the reverse
process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory. This mechanism is used to persist the object.

when to use transient variable in java?
A. when we do not want a variable to serialized

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A.while loop checks the condition at the starting of the loop and if the condition is satisfied statement inside the loop, is executed.
In do-while loop, the condition is checked after the execution of all statements in the body of the loop.May 3, 2016

What is Enum?
A. enum is used to define a collection of constants like Months, Days of the Week.

What is Iterator?
A. Iterator is an interface which belongs to collection framework. It allows us to traverse the collection, access the data element and
remove the data elements of the collection.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A. int

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A.Strings are immutable because we cannot change their states once they are instantiated

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A.Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A. A serial GC is used for single threaded environments.
A Parallel GC is used in multithreaded environments

What is JIT stands for?
The Just-In-Time (JIT) compiler is a component of the Java Runtime Environment that improves the performance of Java
applications at run time.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A.Heap space is the section of memory where objects are stored.
Garbage collection clears the heap of any objects that are not being used.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A. garbage collection is automatic but it cannot be forced and it is not clear when the collection will occur

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A. stacks hold object references and local primitive variables while heaps stores the actual objects.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A. Reflection in Java is the ability to examine and/or modify the properties or behavior of an object at run-time.
Reflection makes it possible to inspect classes, fields and methods at runtime, without knowing the names of the classes,
methods etc. at compile time.

what is multithreading in java?
A. The main purpose of multithreading is to provide simultaneous execution of two or more parts of a program to maximum
utilize the CPU time. A multithreaded program contains two or more parts that can run concurrently. Each such part of a
program called thread.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A. Synchronized keyword in Java is used to provide mutually exclusive access to a shared resource with multiple threads in
Java. Synchronization in Java guarantees that no two threads can execute a synchronized method which requires the same lock
simultaneously or concurrently.

What is Framework?
A. Frameworks are large bodies (usually many classes) of prewritten code to which you add your own code to solve a problem
in a specific domain.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
A. TestNG, JUnit, etc.

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A. JUnit came first and then testNG, so testng has more functionalities.

What are the dependencies for this project?
A. We are using multiple dependencies for this project like
mysql connector,mongoDB CONNECTOR, json jar, testNG

what is dependency injection in java?
A. dependency injection is when a object contains the dependencies of another object and is passed to it so that it
can use it.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A.static binding refers to the calls that can be resolved at compilation time while, dynamic binding are the calls
that can be resolved only at runtime.









